[CAM-11122] using ebcli tutorial (#2737)
CenturyLinkCloud/PublicKB: Cloud Application Manager/Tutorials/ebcli-tutorial.md

{{{
"title": "Using ebcli",
"date": "05-20-2019",
"author": "Diego Sanjuan",
"attachments": [],

> "contentIsHTML": false

Reviewer: Please, you should also include `keywords` here

Author: done

}}}

**In this article:**

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Audience](#audience)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Installation of ebcli command line tool](#installation-of-ebcli-command-line-tool)
* [Login into your Cloud Application Manager account with ebcli](#login-into-your-cloud-application-manager-account-with-ebcli)
* [Show available ebcli commands](#show-available-ebcli-commands)
* [Box commands using ebcli](#box-commands-using-ebcli)
* [Instance lifecycle using ebcli](#instance-lifecycle-using-ebcli)
* [ECS Image management using ebcli](#ecs-image-management-using-ebcli)
* [Workspaces list using ebcli](#workspaces-list-using-ebcli)
* [Delete Resources using ebcli](#delete-resources-using-ebcli)
* [Logout from your Cloud Application Manager account with ebcli](#logout-from-your-cloud-application-manager-account-with-ebcli)
* [Contacting Cloud Application Manager Support](#contacting-cloud-application-manager-support)

### Overview

This tutorial is meant to assist users of Cloud Application Manager to learn how to use [ebcli](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ebcli) - our command line tool- to control their Cloud Application Manager account as follows:

> * For boxes - how to deploy, export, import as version or as a draft, etc using ebcli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **boxes** - how to deploy, export, import as version or as a draft, etc using ebcli.
```
Can you import "as version" or "a version"?

> * For instances - how to reconfigure, reinstall, shutdown, poweron, export, etc using ebcli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **instances** - how to reconfigure, reinstall, shutdown, poweron, export, etc using ebcli.
```

> * For ECS images - how to manage them using ebcli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **ECS images** - how to manage them using ebcli.
```

> * For workspaces - how to list them using ebcli.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For **workspaces** - how to list them using ebcli.
```

ebcli calls Cloud Application Manager APIs in the backend to list, provision and manage the lifecycle of your workloads based on the box configuration.

### Audience

> All Cloud Application Manager users who want to control their Cloud Application Manager account using ebcli - command line tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Cloud Application Manager users who want to control their Cloud Application Manager account using `ebcli` - command line tool.
```

### Prerequisites

> * Access to Cloud Application Manager [Site](https://cam.ctl.io/#/login) or to an on-premises CAM appliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Access to Cloud Application Manager [Site](https://cam.ctl.io/#/login) or to an on-premises Cloud Application Manager Data Center Edition (CAM appliance).
```

* The user must have an existing account to login into using username and password or his preferred authentication mechanism.

> ## Installation of ebcli command line tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installation of ebcli command line tool
```

> Before you start using ebcli, you need to install it using pip which is a package manager for Python packages, or modules if you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start using `ebcli`, you need to install it using `pip` which is a package manager for Python packages, or modules if you like.
```

> If you don't have pip installed. Please follow this guide to install it into your computer: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have `pip` installed. Please follow this guide to install it into your computer: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/
```
Please, try to include any reference to commands or code in a preformatted block

**Terminal Command**

Open a terminal in your computer and execute the installation command:

```
pip install ebcli
```

When the installation process ends pip should have installed ebcli and all of its required dependencies.

### Login into your Cloud Application Manager account with ebcli

Before you can control your Cloud Application Manager account with ebcli, you need to connect your account in Cloud Application Manager with ebcli.

The ebcli needs a token to login into your Cloud Application Manager account.

**Steps to create a token**

> * Open https://cam.ctl.io if you are using SaaS or https://YOUR_APPLIANCE_FQDN if you are using on premises of cam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open https://cam.ctl.io if you are using SaaS or https://YOUR_APPLIANCE_FQDN if you are using on premises edition of Cloud Application Manager
```

* Login with your username and password or your preferred authentication mechanism
* Click on your user name menu (at top right corner of CAM user interface)
* Click on 'Authentication Tokens'
* Write a descriptive name for your token, i.e. ebcli
* Click on 'Create Token'
* Click on clipboard buttom at right of your token to copy it

**Terminal Command**

Open a terminal in your computer and execute the login command:

```
ebcli login
```

You will be prompt for introduccing your 'Authentication Token:', just paste your token, and hit Enter.

> Now your computer will ask your keyring password to store your Cloud Application Manager token safely in your keyring.

Reviewer: Hmmm, does this work the same in Windows?

Author: windows? WHAT is windows? ... I believe it works similarly. But I'll test it.

### Show available ebcli commands

**Terminal Command**

Open a terminal in your computer and execute the login command:

```
ebcli
```

ebcli will show usage help like this one:

```
usage: ebcli [-h] [--url URL] [--token TOKEN] [--debug] [--verbose] [-j]
             {boxes,build,delete,deploy,get,export,export-instance,import,instances,login,logout,set,poweron,reconfigure,reinstall,shutdown,terminate,workspaces}
             ...
ebcli: error: too few arguments
```

**General Parameters**

| Get Boxes Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| --url | By default it's https://cam.ctl.io but you can use this to specify your APPLIANCE FQDN. |
| –-token | You can use it to specify your token in every command if you don't want to store it into your keyring. |
| –-debug | Show debug information to provide detailed traces to support in case of issues. |
| –-verbose | Show detailed information of operations and api calls requested to Cloud Operation Manager. |

### Box commands using ebcli

> ## Get boxes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Get boxes
```
Do not use level 2 titles (the minimum to use in a KB is level 3, and since in this case is a section under boxes, you should use level 4 instead.

Use ebcli to list your boxes.

**Terminal Command**

```
ebcli boxes [-f [-f [<FIELD> [<FIELD> ...]]] [-r [<REQUIREMENT> [<REQUIREMENT> ...]]] [-w “<WORKSPACE ID>”] 
```

**Parameters**

| Get Boxes Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| -f | Field or Fields you want to be listed. |
| –r | Requirements Tags which you want to use to filter your boxes. i.e. ubuntu |
| –w | Workspace which contains the boxes you want to list. |

> ## Export a Box 

Reviewer: Idem

Author: done

Use the ebcli to export a box from Cloud Application Manager into JSON and text files to be able to import it after.

**Terminal Command**

```
ebcli export [--boxes-path <BOXES_PATH>] [-r] ”<box ID>”
```

**Parameters**

| Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| –-boxes-path | Path where the boxes will be exported. |
| -r | Recursively export box and inner boxes. |

> ## Import a Box

Reviewer: Idem

Author: done

### Instance lifecycle using ebcli

## Get instances

Use ebcli to list your instances.

**Terminal Command**

```
ebcli instances [-f [<FIELD> [<FIELD> ...]]] [-t [<TAG> [<TAG> ...]]] [-w “<WORKSPACE ID>”] 
```

**Parameters**

| Get Boxes Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| -f | Field or Fields you want to be listed. |
| –t | Tag or Tags used to filter your instances. i.e. 'production us-east-1' |
| –w | Workspace which contains the instances you want to list. |

## Reconfigure an Instance

Use ebcli to execute reconfigure operation on an instance which is powered on.

**Terminal Command**

```
ebcli reconfigure ”<instance-id>”
```

**Parameters**

| Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| instance-id | ID of the Instance which boxes you want to reconfigure. |

## Reinstall an Instance

Use ebcli to execute reinstall operation on an instance which is powered on.

**Terminal Command**

```
ebcli reinstall ”<instance-id>”
```

**Parameters**

| Option | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| instance-id | ID of Instance you want to power on. |

## Terminate an Instance

> Use ebcli to execute terminate operation on an instance which is provisioned.

Reviewer: I would add a similar warning to the one we added in the UI, to alert that this is a destructive operation and the underlying infrastructure will be removed. (you are mentioning it somehow just below, but it's best to make a explicit mention)

Author: done

***You can't connect to, restart or recover an instance after you've terminated it.***

Before you terminate the instance, verify that you won't lose any data by checking that your volumes won't be deleted on termination and that you've copied any data that you need from your instance volumes to a persistent storage service.

When an instance terminates, the data on any instance store and volumes associated with that instance are deleted.

> After you terminate an instance, it remains visible in the your cloud provider console for being deprovisioned short while, and then the entry is automatically deleted. After an instance is terminated, resources such as tags and volumes are gradually disassociated from the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you terminate an instance, it remains visible in your cloud provider console for a short period of time, and then the entry is automatically deleted. After an instance is terminated, resources such as tags and volumes are gradually disassociated from the instance.
```

> When you terminate an instance, the whole history of the instance is kept in Cloud Application Manager and you can use it as a reference for other instances, to copy the variables or to clone the instance. The instance in your cloud provider is terminated or deprovisioned.

Reviewer: Ok, I see that I was referring to above is here, but I will put it on top

Author: done
